UNDERSTANDING THE BASICS

What is Node.js?
Node.js is a server-side JavaScript run-time environment. It's open-source, including Google's V8 engine, libuv for cross-platform compatibility, and a core library. Notably, Node.js does not expose a global "window" object, since it does not run within a browser.

What is Node.js used for?
Node.js is primarily used for non-blocking, event-driven servers, due to its single-threaded nature. It's used for traditional web sites and back-end API services, but was designed with real-time, push-based architectures in mind.

What is a web framework?
Web frameworks like Angular and React are libraries that help organize and generate the front-end code that runs in a web browser. They reduce development time, reusing code for common operations. Some web frameworks are "full stack," meaning they also generate the back-end code that runs on a web server.

Is Node.js a framework?
No, it's an environment, and back-end frameworks run within it. Popular ones include Express.js (or simply Express) for HTTP servers and Socket.IO for WebSocket servers.

Is Node.js a programming language?
No, the ".js" means that the programming language you use with Node.js is JavaScript (or anything that can transpile to it, like TypeScript, Haxe, or CoffeeScript.)

Why is Node.js popular?
Aside from being effective at what it does, Node.js is popular because it has a huge, active, open-source, JavaScript-based ecosystem. Also, it doesn't tend to break compatibility between versions in major ways.

What is the difference between Node.js and Angular/AngularJS?
Node.js executes JavaScript code in its environment on the server, whereas Angular is a JavaScript framework that gets executed on the client (i.e. within a web browser.)

Why is Node.js bad?
Node.js, being single-threaded, may be a bad choice for web servers doubling as computational servers, since heavy computation will block the server's responsiveness. However, Node.js itself isn't bad: The technology is quite mature and widely used for many different types of servers.